---
url: "https://arxiv.org/html/2308.00352v7"
title: "MetaGPT: Meta Programming for a Multi-Agent Collaborative Framework"
engine: google
rank: 10
published: unknown
updated: unknown
author: unknown
org: unknown
char_count: 45578
fetched_at: "2026-05-31T17:37:06.274776+00:00"
---

Sirui Hong, Mingchen Zhuge , Jiaqi Chen, Xiawu Zheng, Yuheng Cheng, , , , , , , , , , DeepWisdom, AI Initiative, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Xiamen University, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, Nanjing University, University of Pennsylvania, University of California, Berkeley, The Swiss AI Lab IDSIA/USI/SUPSI 
Remarkable progress has been made on automated problem solving through societies of agents based on large language models (LLMs). Existing LLM-based multi-agent systems can already solve simple dialogue tasks. Solutions to more complex tasks, however, are complicated through logic inconsistencies due to cascading hallucinations caused by naively chaining LLMs. Here we introduce MetaGPT, an innovative meta-programming framework incorporating efficient human workflows into LLM-based multi-agent collaborations. MetaGPT encodes Standardized Operating Procedures (SOPs) into prompt sequences for more streamlined workflows, thus allowing agents with human-like domain expertise to verify intermediate results and reduce errors. MetaGPT utilizes an assembly line paradigm to assign diverse roles to various agents, efficiently breaking down complex tasks into subtasks involving many agents working together. On collaborative software engineering benchmarks, MetaGPT generates more coherent solutions than previous chat-based multi-agent systems. Our project can be found at .
Autonomous agents utilizing Large Language Models (LLMs) offer promising opportunities to enhance and replicate human workflows. In real-world applications, however, existing systems tend to oversimplify the complexities. They struggle to achieve effective, coherent, and accurate problem-solving processes, particularly when there is a need for meaningful collaborative interaction .
Through extensive collaborative practice, humans have developed widely accepted Standardized Operating Procedures (SOPs) across various domains . These SOPs play a critical role in supporting task decomposition and effective coordination. Furthermore, SOPs outline the responsibilities of each team member, while establishing standards for intermediate outputs. Well-defined SOPs improve the consistent and accurate execution of tasks that align with defined roles and quality standards . For instance, in a software company, Product Managers analyze competition and user needs to create Product Requirements Documents (PRDs) using a standardized structure, to guide the developmental process.
In software engineering, SOPs promote collaboration among various roles. MetaGPT showcases its ability to decompose complex tasks into specific actionable procedures assigned to various roles (e.g., Product Manager, Architect, Engineer, etc.). 
Inspired by such ideas, we design a promising -based -Programming framework called MetaGPT that significantly benefits from SOPs. Unlike other works , MetaGPT requires agents to generate structured outputs, such as high-quality requirements documents, design artifacts, flowcharts, and interface specifications. The use of intermediate structured outputs significantly increases the success rate of target code generation. Because it helps maintain consistency in communication, minimizing ambiguities and errors during collaboration. More graphically, in a company simulated by MetaGPT, all employees follow a strict and streamlined workflow, and all their handovers must comply with certain established standards. This reduces the risk of hallucinations caused by idle chatter between LLMs, particularly in role-playing frameworks, like: “ – Alice (Product Manager); “ – Bob (Architect).
Benefiting from SOPs, MetaGPT offers a promising approach to meta-programming. In this context, we adopt meta-programming as ”programming to program”, in contrast to the broader fields of meta learning and ”learning to learn” .
This notion of meta-programming also encompasses earlier efforts like CodeBERT and recent projects such as CodeLlama and WizardCoder . However, MetaGPT stands out as a unique solution that allows for efficient meta-programming through a well-organized group of specialized agents. Each agent has a specific role and expertise, following some established standards. This allows for automatic requirement analysis, system design, code generation, modification, execution, and debugging during runtime, highlighting how agent-based techniques can enhance meta-programming.
To validate the design of MetaGPT, we use publicly available HumanEval and MBPP for evaluations. Notably, in code generation benchmarks, MetaGPT achieves a new state-of-the-art (SoTA) with 85.9% and 87.7% in Pass@1. When compared to other popular frameworks for creating complex software projects, such as AutoGPT , LangChain , AgentVerse , and ChatDev . MetaGPT also stands out in handling higher levels of software complexity and offering extensive functionality. Remarkably, in our experimental evaluations, MetaGPT achieves a task completion rate, demonstrating the robustness and efficiency (time and token costs) of our design.
We introduce MetaGPT, a meta-programming framework for multi-agent collaboration based on LLMs. It is highly convenient and flexible, with well-defined functions like role definition and message sharing, making it a useful platform for developing LLM-based multi-agent systems.
Our innovative integration of human-like SOPs throughout MetaGPT’s design significantly enhances its robustness, reducing unproductive collaboration among LLM-based agents. Furthermore, we introduce a novel executive feedback mechanism that debugs and executes code during runtime, significantly elevating code generation quality (e.g., 5.4% absolute improvement on MBPP).
We achieve state-of-the-art performance on HumanEval and MBPP . Extensive results convincingly validate MetaGPT, suggesting that it is a promising meta-programming framework for developing LLM-based multi-agent systems.
The roots of automatic programming reach back deep into the previous century. In 1969, introduced “PROW,” a system designed to accept program specifications written in predicate calculus, generate algorithms, and create LISP implementations . and made efforts to advance automatic programming and identified potential methods to achieve it. Recent approaches use natural language processing (NLP) techniques . Automatic programming has grown into an industry delivering paid functions such as Microsoft Copilot. Lately, LLMs-based agents have advanced automatic programming development. Among them, ReAct and Reflexion utilize a chain of thought prompts to generate reasoning trajectories and action plans with LLMs. Both works demonstrate the effectiveness of the ReAct style loop of reasoning as a design paradigm for empowering automatic programming. Additionally, ToolFormer and ToolLLM can learn how to use external tools through simple APIs. The research most closely aligned with our work by proposes a straightforward role-play framework for programming that involves communication between agents playing different roles. utilizes multiple agents for software development. Although existing papers have improved productivity, they have not fully tapped into effective workflows with structured output formats. This makes it harder to deal with complex software engineering issues.
Recently, LLM-based autonomous agents have gained tremendous interest in both industry and academia . Many works have improved the problem-solving abilities of LLMs by integrating discussions among multiple agents. Stable-Alignment creates instruction datasets by deriving consensus on value judgments through interactions across a sandbox with LLM agents. Other works focus on sociological phenomena. For example, Generative Agents creates a “town” of 25 agents to study language interaction, social understanding, and collective memory. In the Natural Language-Based Society of Mind (NLSOM) , agents with different functions interact to solve complex tasks through multiple rounds of “mindstorms.” propose a model for cost reduction by combining large models as tool makers and small models as tool users.
Some works emphasize cooperation and competition related to planning and strategy ; others propose LLM-based economies . These works focus on open-world human behavior simulation, while MetaGPT aims to introduce human practice into multi-agents frameworks. Besides, LLM-based agents face the challenges of “assistant repeated instruction” or “infinite loop of message” . These challenges become more urgent in task-oriented collaborations, which require consistent and mutually beneficial interactions . This motivates our focus on applying advanced concepts such as Standard Operating Procedures in software development to multi-agent frameworks.
An example of the communication protocol (left) and iterative programming with executable feedback (right). : Agents use a shared message pool to publish structured messages. They can also subscribe to relevant messages based on their profiles. : After generating the initial code, the Engineer agent runs and checks for errors. If errors occur, the agent checks past messages stored in memory and compares them with the PRD, system design, and code files.
MetaGPT is a meta-programming framework for LLM-based multi-agent systems. provides an explanation of role specialization, workflow and structured communication in this framework, and illustrates how to organize a multi-agent system within the context of SOPs. presents a communication protocol that enhances role communication efficiency. We also implement structured communication interfaces and an effective publish-subscribe mechanism. These methods enable agents to obtain directional information from other roles and public information from the environment. Finally, we introduce executable feedback—a self-correction mechanism for further enhancing code generation quality during run-time in .
Unambiguous role specialization enables the breakdown of complex work into smaller and more specific tasks. Solving complex tasks or problems often requires the collaboration of agents with diverse skills and expertise, each contributing specialized outputs tailored to specific issues.
In a software company, a Product Manager typically conducts business-oriented analysis and derives insights, while a software engineer is responsible for programming. We define five roles in our software company: Product Manager, Architect, Project Manager, Engineer, and QA Engineer, as shown in . In MetaGPT, we specify the agent’s profile, which includes their name, profile, goal, and constraints for each role. We also initialize the specific context and skills for each role. For instance, a Product Manager can use web search tools, while an Engineer can execute code, as shown in . All agents adhere to the React-style behavior as described in .
Every agent monitors the environment (, the message pool in MetaGPT) to spot important observations (, messages from other agents). These messages can either directly trigger actions or assist in finishing the job.
A diagram showing the software development process in MetaGPT, emphasizing its significant dependence on SOPs. The more detailed demonstration can be found in . 
By defining the agents’ roles and operational skills, we can establish basic workflows. In our work, we follow SOP in software development, which enables all agents to work in a sequential manner.
Specifically, as shown in , upon obtaining user requirements, the Product Manager undertakes a thorough analysis, formulating a detailed PRD that includes User Stories and Requirement Pool. This serves as a preliminary functional breakdown. The structured PRD is then passed to the Architect, who translates the requirements into system design components, such as File Lists, Data Structures, and Interface Definitions. Once captured in the system design, the information is directed towards the Project Manager for task distribution. Engineers proceed to execute the designated classes and functions as outlined (detailed in ). In the following stage, the QA Engineer formulates test cases to enforce stringent code quality. In the final step, MetaGPT produces a meticulously crafted software solution. We provide a detailed schematic () and a concrete instance () of the SOP workflow in MetaGPT.
However, despite the versatility of natural language, a question arises: does pure natural language communication suffice for solving complex tasks? For example, in the telephone game (or Chinese whispers), after several rounds of communication, the original information may be quite distorted. Inspired by human social structures, we propose using structured communication to formulate the communication of agents. We establish a schema and format for each role and request that individuals provide the necessary outputs based on their specific role and context.
As shown in , the Architect agent generates two outputs: the system interface design and a sequence flow diagram. These contain system module design and interaction sequences, which serve as important deliverables for Engineers. Unlike ChatDev , agents in MetaGPT communicate through documents and diagrams (structured outputs) rather than dialogue. These documents contain all necessary information, preventing irrelevant or missing content.
Sharing information is critical in collaboration. For instance, Architects and Engineers often need to reference PRDs. However, communicating this information each time in a one-to-one manner, as indicated by previous work , can complicate the communication topology, resulting in inefficiencies.
To address this challenge, a viable approach is to store information in a global . As shown in (left), we introduce a shared message pool that allows all agents to exchange messages directly. These agents not only their structured messages in the pool but also access messages from other entities transparently. Any agent can directly retrieve required information from the shared pool, eliminating the need to inquire about other agents and await their responses. This enhances communication efficiency.
Sharing all information with every agent can lead to information overload. During task execution, an agent typically prefers to receive only task-related information and avoid distractions through irrelevant details. Effective management and dissemination of this information play a crucial role. We offer a simple and effective solution- (in (left)). Instead of relying on dialogue, agents utilize role-specific interests to extract relevant information. They can select information to follow based on their role profiles. In practical implementations, an agent activates its action only after receiving all its prerequisite dependencies. As illustrated in , the Architect mainly focuses on PRDs provided by the Product Manager, while documents from roles such as the QA Engineer might be of lesser concern.
In daily programming tasks, the processes of debugging and optimization play important roles. However, existing methods often lack a self-correction mechanism, which leads to unsuccessful code generation. Previous work introduced non-executable code review and self-reflection . However, they still face challenges in ensuring code executability and runtime correctness.
Our first MetaGPT implementations overlooked certain errors during the review process, due to LLM hallucinations . To overcome this, after initial code generation, we introduce an executable feedback mechanism to improve the code iteratively. More specifically, as shown in , the Engineer is asked to write code based on the original product requirements and design.
This enables the Engineer to continuously improve code using its own historical execution and debugging memory. To obtain additional information, the Engineer writes and executes the corresponding unit test cases, and subsequently receives the test results. If satisfactory, additional development tasks are initiated. Otherwise the Engineer debugs the code before resuming programming. This iterative testing process continues until the test is passed or a maximum of 3 retries is reached.
We use two public benchmarks, HumanEval and MBPP , and a self-generated, more challenging software development benchmark named SoftwareDev: (1) HumanEval includes 164 handwritten programming tasks. These tasks encompass function specifications, descriptions, reference codes, and tests. (2) MBPP consists of 427 Python tasks. These tasks cover core concepts and standard library features and include descriptions, reference codes, and automated tests. (3) Our SoftwareDev dataset is a collection of 70 representative examples of software development tasks, each with its own task prompt (see ). These tasks have diverse scopes (See ), such as mini-games, image processing algorithms, data visualization. They offer a robust testbed for authentic development tasks. Contrary to previous datasets , SoftwareDev focuses on the engineering aspects. In the comparisons, we randomly select seven representative tasks for evaluation.
For HuamnEval and MBPP, we follow the unbiased version of as presented by , to evaluate the functional accuracy of the top-k generated codes: roman_Pass @ italic_k = blackboard_E start_POSTSUBSCRIPT Problems end_POSTSUBSCRIPT [ 1 - divide start_ARG ( FRACOP start_ARG italic_n - italic_c end_ARG start_ARG italic_k end_ARG ) end_ARG start_ARG ( FRACOP start_ARG italic_n end_ARG start_ARG italic_k end_ARG ) end_ARG ].
For SoftwareDev, we prioritize practical use and evaluate performance through human evaluations (A, E) or statistical analysis (B, C, D): Executability: this metric rates code from 1 (failure/non-functional) to 4 (flawless). ‘1’ is for non-functional, ‘2’ for runnable but imperfect, ‘3’ for nearly perfect, and ‘4’ for flawless code. Cost: the cost evaluations here include the (1) running time, (2) token usage, and (3) expenses. Code Statistics: this includes (1) code files, (2) lines of code per file, and (3) total code lines. Productivity: basically, it is defined as the number of token usage divided by the number of lines of code, which refers to the consumption of tokens per code line. Human Revision Cost: refers to times of manual code corrections, which tackle problems like package import errors, incorrect class names, or incomplete reference paths. Typically, each correction involves up to 3 lines of code.
We compare our method with recent domain-specific LLMs in the code generation field, including AlphaCode , Incoder , CodeGeeX , CodeGen , CodeX , and CodeT and general domain LLMs such as PaLM , and GPT-4 . Several results of baselines (such as Incoder, CodeGeeX) are provided by . In HumanEval and MBPP, we slightly modified the prompts to align with response format requirements. These modifications aim to address format-specific issues (i.e., Python problems). With the SoftwareDev benchmark, we provide a comprehensive comparison between MetaGPT, AutoGPT , LangChain with Python Read-Eval-Print Loop (REPL) tool, AgentVerse , and ChatDev .
demonstrates that MetaGPT outperforms all preceding approaches in both HumanEval and MBPP benchmarks. When MetaGPT collaborates with GPT-4, it significantly improves the in the HumanEval benchmark compared to GPT-4. It achieves 85.9% and 87.7% in these two public benchmarks. Moreover, as shown in , MetaGPT outperforms ChatDev on the challenging SoftwareDev dataset in nearly all metrics. For example, considering the executability, MetaGPT achieves a score of 3.75, which is very close to 4 (flawless). Besides, it takes less time (503 seconds), clearly less than ChatDev. Considering the code statistic and the cost of human revision, it also significantly outperforms ChatDev. Although MetaGPT requires more tokens (24,613 or 31,255 compared to 19,292), it needs only 126.5/124.3 tokens to generate one line of code. In contrast, ChatDev uses 248.9 tokens. These results highlight the benefits of SOPs in collaborations between multiple agents. Additionally, we demonstrate the autonomous software generation capabilities of MetaGPT through visualization samples (). For additional experiments and analysis, please refer to .  
‘✓’ indicates the presence of a specific feature in the corresponding framework, ‘’ its absence. ‘#’ denotes ‘The number of’, ‘Product’ denotes ‘Product manager’, and ‘Project’ denotes ‘Project manager’. ‘✓’ indicates the addition of a specific role. ‘Revisions’ refers to ‘Human Revision Cost’. 
Compared to open-source baseline methods such as AutoGPT and autonomous agents such as AgentVerse and ChatDev, MetaGPT offers functions for software engineering tasks. As presented in , our framework encompasses a wide range of abilities to handle complex and specialized development tasks efficiently. Incorporating SOPs (e.g., role-play expertise, structured communication, streamlined workflow) can significantly improve code generation. Other baseline methods can easily integrate SOP-like designs to improve their performance, similar to injecting chain-of-thought in LLMs.
To understand the impact of different roles on the final results, we perform two tasks that involve generating effective code and calculating average statistics. When we exclude certain roles, unworkable codes are generated. As indicated by , the addition of roles different from just the Engineer consistently improves both revisions and executability. While more roles slightly increase the expenses, the overall performance improves noticeably, demonstrating the effectiveness of the various roles.
As shown in , adding executable feedback into MetaGPT leads to a significant improvement of 4.2% and 5.4% in on HumanEval and MBPP, respectively. Besides, Table shows that the feedback mechanism improves feasibility (3.67 to 3.75) and reduces the cost of human revisions (2.25 to 0.83). These results illustrate how our designed feedback mechanism can produce higher-quality code. Additional quantitative results of MetaGPT and MetaGPT without executable feedback are shown in and .
This work introduces MetaGPT, a novel meta-programming framework that leverages SOPs to enhance the problem-solving capabilities of multi-agent systems based on Large Language Models (LLMs). MetaGPT models a group of agents as a simulated software company, analogous to simulated towns and the Minecraft Sandbox in Voyager . MetaGPT leverages role specialization, workflow management, and efficient sharing mechanisms such as message pools and subscriptions, rendering it a flexible and portable platform for autonomous agents and multi-agent frameworks. It uses an executable feedback mechanism to enhance code generation quality during runtime. In extensive experiments, MetaGPT achieves state-of-the-art performance on multiple benchmarks. The successful integration of human-like SOPs inspires future research on human-inspired techniques for artificial multi-agent systems. We also view our work as an early attempt to regulate LLM-based multi-agent frameworks. See also the .
We thank Sarah Salhi, the Executive Secretary of KAUST AI Initiative, and Yuhui Wang, Postdoctoral Fellow at the KAUST AI Initiative, for helping to polish some of the text. We would like to express our gratitude to Wenyi Wang, a PhD student at the KAUST AI Initiative, for providing comprehensive feedback on the paper and for helping to draft the outlook () with Mingchen. We also thank Zongze Xu, the vice president of DeepWisdom, for providing illustrative materials for AgentStore.
Sirui Hong conducted most of the experiments and designed the executable feedback module. She also led the initial version of the write-up, supported by Ceyao Zhang, and also by Jinlin Wang and Zili Wang. Mingchen Zhuge designed the self-improvement module, discussed additional experiments, and led the current write-up. Jiaqi Chen helped with the MBPP experiments, outlined the methods section, and contributed to the current write-up. Xiawu Zheng provided valuable guidance, reviewed and edited the paper. Yuheng Cheng contributed to the evaluation metric design and HumanEval experiments. Steven Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang Zhou, Lingfeng Xiao helped with the MBPP experiments and comparisons to open-source baseline methods. Chenyu Ran created most of the illustrative figures. Chenglin Wu is the CEO of DeepWisdom, initiated MetaGPT, made the most significant code contributions to it, and advised this project. Jürgen Schmidhuber, Director of the AI Initiative at KAUST and Scientific Director of IDSIA, advised this project and helped with the write-up.
  *   * Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell Nye, Maarten Bosma, Henryk Michalewski, David Dohan, Ellen Jiang, Carrie Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc Le, and Charles Sutton. 
  *   *   *   * Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, Alex Ray, Raul Puri, Gretchen Krueger, Michael Petrov, Heidy Khlaaf, Girish Sastry, Pamela Mishkin, Brooke Chan, Scott Gray, Nick Ryder, Mikhail Pavlov, Alethea Power, Lukasz Kaiser, Mohammad Bavarian, Clemens Winter, Philippe Tillet, Felipe Petroski Such, Dave Cummings, Matthias Plappert, Fotios Chantzis, Elizabeth Barnes, Ariel Herbert-Voss, William Hebgen Guss, Alex Nichol, Alex Paino, Nikolas Tezak, Jie Tang, Igor Babuschkin, Suchir Balaji, Shantanu Jain, William Saunders, Christopher Hesse, Andrew N. Carr, Jan Leike, Josh Achiam, Vedant Misra, Evan Morikawa, Alec Radford, Matthew Knight, Miles Brundage, Mira Murati, Katie Mayer, Peter Welinder, Bob McGrew, Dario Amodei, Sam McCandlish, Ilya Sutskever, and Wojciech Zaremba. 
  * Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jingwei Zuo, Cheng Yang, Chenfei Yuan, Chen Qian, Chi-Min Chan, Yujia Qin, Yaxi Lu, Ruobing Xie, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun, and Jie Zhou. 
  * Aakanksha Chowdhery, Sharan Narang, Jacob Devlin, Maarten Bosma, Gaurav Mishra, Adam Roberts, Paul Barham, Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton, Sebastian Gehrmann, Parker Schuh, Kensen Shi, Sasha Tsvyashchenko, Joshua Maynez, Abhishek Rao, Parker Barnes, Yi Tay, Noam Shazeer, Vinodkumar Prabhakaran, Emily Reif, Nan Du, Ben Hutchinson, Reiner Pope, James Bradbury, Jacob Austin, Michael Isard, Guy Gur-Ari, Pengcheng Yin, Toju Duke, Anselm Levskaya, Sanjay Ghemawat, Sunipa Dev, Henryk Michalewski, Xavier Garcia, Vedant Misra, Kevin Robinson, Liam Fedus, Denny Zhou, Daphne Ippolito, David Luan, Hyeontaek Lim, Barret Zoph, Alexander Spiridonov, Ryan Sepassi, David Dohan, Shivani Agrawal, Mark Omernick, Andrew M. Dai, Thanumalayan Sankaranarayana Pillai, Marie Pellat, Aitor Lewkowycz, Erica Moreira, Rewon Child, Oleksandr Polozov, Katherine Lee, Zongwei Zhou, Xuezhi Wang, Brennan Saeta, Mark Diaz, Orhan Firat, Michele Catasta, Jason Wei, Kathy Meier-Hellstern, Douglas Eck, Jeff Dean, Slav Petrov, and Noah Fiedel. 
  *   *   * Zhangyin Feng, Daya Guo, Duyu Tang, Nan Duan, Xiaocheng Feng, Ming Gong, Linjun Shou, Bing Qin, Ting Liu, Daxin Jiang, et al. 
  *   * Daniel Fried, Armen Aghajanyan, Jessy Lin, Sida Wang, Eric Wallace, Freda Shi, Ruiqi Zhong, Wen-tau Yih, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Mike Lewis. 
  *   * In , pp. 87–94. Springer: Berlin, Heidelberg, 2001. 
  * Sirui Hong, Yizhang Lin, Bangbang Liu, Binhao Wu, Danyang Li, Jiaqi Chen, Jiayi Zhang, Jinlin Wang, Lingyao Zhang, Mingchen Zhuge, et al. 
  *   *   * Yujia Li, David Choi, Junyoung Chung, Nate Kushman, Julian Schrittwieser, Rémi Leblond, Tom Eccles, James Keeling, Felix Gimeno, Agustin Dal Lago, et al. 
  *   *   *   * Yuliang Liu, Xiangru Tang, Zefan Cai, Junjie Lu, Yichi Zhang, Yanjun Shao, Zexuan Deng, Helan Hu, Zengxian Yang, Kaikai An, et al. 
  * Ziyang Luo, Can Xu, Pu Zhao, Qingfeng Sun, Xiubo Geng, Wenxiang Hu, Chongyang Tao, Jing Ma, Qingwei Lin, and Daxin Jiang. 
  *   * Niklas Muennighoff, Qian Liu, Armel Zebaze, Qinkai Zheng, Binyuan Hui, Terry Yue Zhuo, Swayam Singh, Xiangru Tang, Leandro Von Werra, and Shayne Longpre. 
  *   *   *   *   * Yujia Qin, Shihao Liang, Yining Ye, Kunlun Zhu, Lan Yan, Yaxi Lu, Yankai Lin, Xin Cong, Xiangru Tang, Bill Qian, et al. 
  * Baptiste Rozière, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Sten Sootla, Itai Gat, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Yossi Adi, Jingyu Liu, Tal Remez, Jérémy Rapin, et al. 
  *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   * Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao Yang, Jingsen Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen, Jiakai Tang, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, et al. 
  *   *   *   *   *   *   * Zhuosheng Zhang, Yao Yao, Aston Zhang, Xiangru Tang, Xinbei Ma, Zhiwei He, Yiming Wang, Mark Gerstein, Rui Wang, Gongshen Liu, et al. 
  *   * Qinkai Zheng, Xiao Xia, Xu Zou, Yuxiao Dong, Shan Wang, Yufei Xue, Zihan Wang, Lei Shen, Andi Wang, Yang Li, Teng Su, Zhilin Yang, and Jie Tang. 
  * Shuyan Zhou, Frank F Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, et al. 
  * Wangchunshu Zhou, Yuchen Eleanor Jiang, Long Li, Jialong Wu, Tiannan Wang, Shi Qiu, Jintian Zhang, Jing Chen, Ruipu Wu, Shuai Wang, et al. 
  * Mingchen Zhuge, Haozhe Liu, Francesco Faccio, Dylan R Ashley, Róbert Csordás, Anand Gopalakrishnan, Abdullah Hamdi, Hasan Abed Al Kader Hammoud, Vincent Herrmann, Kazuki Irie, et al. 


One limitation of the MetaGPT version in the main text of this paper is that each software project is executed independently. However, through active teamwork, a software development team should learn from the experience gained by developing each project, thus becoming more compatible and successful over time.
This is somewhat related to the idea of recursive self-improvement, first informally proposed in 1965 , with first concrete implementations since 1987 , culminating in the concept of mathematically optimal self-referential self-improvers . Generally speaking, a system should learn from experience in the real world, and meta-learn better learning algorithms from experiences of learning, and meta-meta-learn better meta-learning algorithms from experiences of meta-learning, etc., without any limitations except those of computability and physics.
More recent, somewhat related work leverages the reasoning ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) and recursively improves prompts of LLMs, to improve performance on certain downstream tasks , analogous to the adaptive prompt engineer of 2015 where one neural network learns to generate sequence of queries or prompts for another pre-trained neural network whose answers may help the first network to learn new tasks more quickly.
In our present work, we also explore a self-referential mechanism that recursively modifies the constraint prompts of agents based on information they observe during software development. Our initial implementation works as follows. Prior to each project, every agent in the software company reviews previous feedback and makes necessary adjustments to their constraint prompts. This enables them to continuously learn from past project experiences and enhance the overall multi-agent system by improving each individual in the company. We first establish a action for each agent. This action is responsible for critically summarizing the information received during the development of previous projects and integrating this information in an updated constraint prompt. The summarized information is stored in such that it can be inherited by future constraint prompt updates. When initiating a new project, each agent starts with a action. Each agent evaluates the received feedback and summarizes how they can improve in a constraint prompt.
One current limitation is that these summary-based optimizations only modify constraints in the specialization of roles () rather than structured communication interfaces in communication protocols (). Future advancements are yet to be explored.
In real-world teamwork, the interaction processes are often not hardcoded. For example, in a software company, the collaboration SOP may change dynamically.
One implementation of such self-organization is discussed in the paper on a “Natural Language-Based Society of Mind” (NLSOM) , which introduced the idea of an “Economy of Minds” (EOM), a Reinforcement Learning (RL) framework for societies of LLMs and other agents. Instead of using standard RL techniques to optimize the total reward of the system through modifications of neural network parameters, EOMs use the principles of supply and demand in free markets to assign credit (money) to those agents that contribute to economic success (reward).
The recent agent-based platform of DeepWisdom (AgentStore) is compatible with the credit assignment concept of EOMs. Each agent in AgentStore provides a list of services with corresponding costs. A convenient API is provided so that human users or agents in the platform can easily purchase services from other agents to accomplish their services. Figure displays the User Interface (UI) of AgentStore, where various agents with different skills are showcased. Besides, individual developers can participate in building new agents and enable collaborative development within the community. Specifically, AgentStore allows users to subscribe to agents according to their demands and pay according to their usage. Moreover, users can purchase additional capabilities to expand the plug-and-play functions of their existing agents. This allows users to gradually upgrade their agents. Within the MetaGPT framework, AgentStore can support the collaboration of various agents. Users can collect several agents together to carry out more complex tasks or projects, and all the agents share and comply with development and communication protocols defined in MetaGPT.
AgentStore is a platform dedicated to serving users in the creation and development of agents within the MetaGPT framework. This platform provides users with an operational interface, allowing users to easily manage a variety of agents with different emotions, personalities, and capabilities for specific tasks.
In this section, we outline the complete process of software development using MetaGPT. It begins with a user’s input command (as shown in ) and ends with software designed according to the user’s specifications.
Upon receiving an instruction from the user, MetaGPT collaborates with a professional development team to fulfill the task. Here is a demo of user input:
The Product Manager generates a Product Requirement Document (PRD), as detailed in the specified documentation. This document encompasses goals, user stories, competitive analysis, requirement analysis and requirement pool. Additionally, a competitive quadrant chart is produced (see ). Subsequently, these documents and charts are handed over to the architect for system design.
Based on the requirements in PRD, the Architect agent devises technical specifications including system architecture diagrams and interface definitions. Initially, the Architect defines the overarching technical trajectory. Subsequently, the project’s architecture, including files, classes () and the sequence flow chart (), is designed. The Architect’s documentation is then given to the project manager for task allocation and execution.
The Project Manager breaks down the project into a task list. Furthermore, each code file is analyzed based on its intended functionality and then treated as a separate task assigned to Engineers.
Given the provided file structure and function definitions, an Engineer agent requires only fundamental development skills to complete the development tasks. Due to the large number of files, we present only one auto-generated code file here.
Upon receiving the code output from the Engineer, the QA Engineer generates unit test code and reviews it to identify and fix any bugs, ensuring high-quality software.
The SoftwareDev dataset includes 70 diverse software development tasks. displays the names and detailed prompts of 11 tasks within the dataset. Note that the first seven tasks listed are used in the main experiments of this paper.
As shown in , MetaGPT achieves an average score of 3.9, surpassing ChatDev’s score of 2.1 , which is based on the Chat chain. Compare the scores of general intelligent algorithms, including AutoGPT , which all score 1.0, failing to generate executable code. We observe that the generated code is often short, lacks comprehensive logic, and tends to fail to handle cross-file dependencies correctly.
While models such as AutoGPT , Langchain , and AgentVerse display robust general problem-solving capabilities, they lack an essential element for developing complex systems: systematically deconstructing requirements. Conversely, MetaGPT simplifies the process of transforming abstract requirements into detailed class and function designs through a specialized division of labor and SOPs workflow. When compared to ChatDev , MetaGPT’s structured messaging and feedback mechanisms not only reduce loss of communication information but also improve the execution of code.
The executability scores are on a grading system ranging from ’1’ to ’4’. A score of ’1’ signifies complete failure, ’2’ denotes executable code, ’3’ represents largely satisfying expected workflow, and ’4’ indicates a perfect match with expectations.
presents the performance of MetaGPT with GPT-4 32K on 11 tasks within the SoftwareDev dataset. It also shows the average performance across all 70 tasks (in the last line). Note that the version of MetaGPT used here is the basic version without the executable feedback mechanism.
To verify the performance of MetaGPT on different LLMs, we randomly selected 5 SoftwareDev tasks and conducted experiments using GPT-3.5 and Deepseek Coder 33B as backends. As shown in , the results indicate that although MetaGPT can complete tasks with these LLMs, using GPT-4 as the backend yields superior performance.
  1. : Creating a brick breaker game. In a brick breaker game, the player typically controls a paddle at the bottom of the screen to bounce a ball towards a wall of bricks. The goal is to break all the bricks by hitting them with the ball.


Additional experiments were conducted to investigate this aspect: we selected 5 tasks from SoftwareDev, and constructed detailed prompts for them. Here are the experimental results:
The executability is scored on a grading system ranging from ‘1’ to ‘4’. A score of ‘1’ signifies complete failure, ‘2’ denotes runnable code, ‘3’ represents largely expected workflow, and ‘4’ indicates a perfect match to expectations.
We observe that: detailed prompts lead to better software projects with lower productivity ratios because of clearer requirements and functions, while simple inputs can still generate good enough software using MetaGPT with an executability rating of 3.8, which is comparable to the detailed prompt scenario. (Note that, Productivity = Token usage / Total Code Lines. The lower this ratio, the better.)
We use the GPT-4’s 67% HumanEval score as our baseline, acknowledging its acceptance in the HumanEval benchmark. We further extend to experiments(five times) with GPT-4 (gpt-4-0613) and GPT-3.5-Turbo (gpt-3.5-turbo-0613) under various conditions to assess performance. We directly called the OpenAI API with the prompt in HumanEval. We called the OpenAI API and parsed the code with regex in the response. We added an additional system prompt, then called the OpenAI API. The prompt is ”You are an AI that only responds with Python code, NOT ENGLISH. You will be given a function signature and its docstring by the user. Write your full implementation (restate the function signature).” As shown in , GPT-4 is more sensitive to prompt, code parser, and post-processing results on the HumanEval data set. It is difficult for GPT-3.5-Turbo to return the correct completion code without prompt words.
and illustrate the outcomes of the Architect agent’s efforts to design a complex recommender system. These figures showcase the comprehensive system interface design and program call flow. The latter is essential for creating a sophisticated automated system. It is crucial to emphasize the importance of this division of labor in developing an automated software framework.
At present, our system cannot fully cater to specific scenarios, such as UI and front-end, as we have yet to incorporate such agents and multimodal tools. Furthermore, despite generating the most amount of code among comparable frameworks, it remains challenging to fulfill real-world applications’ diverse and complex requirements.
A key challenge for users is to interrupt the running process of each agent, or set the starting running point (checkpoint) for each agent.
MetaGPT enables more people to program in natural languages, thereby making it easier for engineers to get started. Over the years, programming languages have evolved from punched cards to assembly, C, Java, Python, and now natural language. As a result, humans have become more proficient at programming, increasing the demand for programming-related positions. Furthermore, programming with natural language may offer a significantly easier learning curve, making programming more accessible to a broader audience.
MetaGPT is an open-source framework that facilitates interactive communication between multiple agents through natural language. Humans can initiate, observe, and stop running with the highest level of control. It provides real-time interpretation and operation of the natural language, displayed on the screen and logs, ensuring transparency. MetaGPT enhances “natural language programming” capabilities, and human engineers are the users and responsible for the outcomes.
MetaGPT operates locally, ensuring user data privacy and security. It does not collect user data. For interactions with third-party LLMs, such as those by OpenAI, users are encouraged to refer to the respective privacy policies (e.g., OpenAI Privacy Policy). However, we provide the option of open-source LLMs as backends.  
|  Write p5.js code for Flappy Bird where you control a yellow bird continuously flying between a series of green pipes. The bird flaps every time you left click the mouse. If it falls to the ground or hits a pipe, you lose. This game goes on indefinitely until you lose; you get points the further you go.  |  
| --- |  
|  Write an excel data processing program based on streamlit and pandas. The screen first shows an excel file upload button. After the excel file is uploaded, use pandas to display its data content. The program is required to be concise, easy to maintain, and not over-designed. It uses streamlit to process web screen displays, and pandas is sufficient to process excel reading and display. Please make sure others can execute directly without introducing additional packages.  |  
|  Write a management program based on the crud addition, deletion, modification and query processing of the customer business entity. The customer needs to save this information: name, birthday, age, sex, and phone. The data is stored in client.db, and there is a judgement whether the customer table exists. If it doesn’t, it needs to be created first. Querying is done by name; same for deleting. The program is required to be concise, easy to maintain, and not over-designed. The screen is realized through streamlit and sqlite—no need to introduce other additional packages.  |  
|  Develop a program to transcribe sheet music into a digital format; providing error-free transcribed symbolized sheet music intelligence from audio through signal processing involving pitch and time slicing then training a neural net to run Onset Detected CWT transforming scalograms to chromagrams decoded with Recursive Neural Network focused networks.  |  
|  Create custom press releases; develop a Python script that extracts relevant information about company news from external sources, such as social media; extract update interval database for recent changes. The program should create press releases with customizable options and export writings to PDFs, NYTimes API JSONs, media format styled with interlink internal fixed character-length metadata.  |  
Two sub-challenges are present. First, unfolding short natural language descriptions accurately to eliminate ambiguity. Second, maintaining information validity in lengthy contexts, enables LLMs to concentrate on relevant data without distraction.
Using LLMs to generate entire software programs faces code hallucination problems—-including incomplete implementation of functions, missing dependencies, and potential undiscovered bugs, which may be more serious. LLMs often struggle with software generation due to vague task definitions. Focusing on granular tasks like requirement analysis and package selection offers guided thinking, which LLMs lack in broad task solving.
In MetaGPT, we use a global message pool and a subscription mechanism to address “information overload,” which refers to the problem of receiving excessive or irrelevant information. This issue is dependent on specific applications. MetaGPT employs a message pool to streamline communication, ensuring efficiency. Additionally, a subscription mechanism filters out irrelevant contexts, enhancing the relevance and utility of the information. This design is particularly crucial in software design scenarios and standard operating procedures (SOPs) where effective communication is essential.
Averages (Avg.) of 70 tasks are calculated and 10 randomly selected tasks are included. ‘#’ denotes ‘The number of’, while ‘ID’ is ‘Task ID’.

